so all the congregation lifted up their
so all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried and the people wept
voices and cried and the people wept
voices and cried and the people wept that night and all the children of
that night and all the children of
that night and all the children of Israel complained against Moses and
Israel complained against Moses and
Israel complained against Moses and Aaron and the whole congregation said to
Aaron and the whole congregation said to
Aaron and the whole congregation said to them if only we had died in the land of
them if only we had died in the land of
them if only we had died in the land of Egypt or if only we had died in this
Egypt or if only we had died in this
Egypt or if only we had died in this wilderness why has the Lord brought us
wilderness why has the Lord brought us
wilderness why has the Lord brought us to this land to fall by the sword that
to this land to fall by the sword that
to this land to fall by the sword that our wives and children should become
our wives and children should become
our wives and children should become victims would it not be better for us to
victims would it not be better for us to
victims would it not be better for us to return to Egypt so we said to one
return to Egypt so we said to one
return to Egypt so we said to one another let us select a leader and
another let us select a leader and
another let us select a leader and return to Egypt then Moses and Aaron
return to Egypt then Moses and Aaron
return to Egypt then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the
fell on their faces before all the
fell on their faces before all the Assembly of the congregation of the
Assembly of the congregation of the
Assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel but Joshua the son of
children of Israel but Joshua the son of
children of Israel but Joshua the son of nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh who
nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh who
nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh who were among those who had spied out the
were among those who had spied out the
were among those who had spied out the land tore their clothes and they spoke
land tore their clothes and they spoke
land tore their clothes and they spoke to all the congregation of the children
to all the congregation of the children
to all the congregation of the children of Israel the land we passed through to
of Israel the land we passed through to
of Israel the land we passed through to spy out is an exceedingly good land if
spy out is an exceedingly good land if
spy out is an exceedingly good land if the Lord delights on us then he will
the Lord delights on us then he will
the Lord delights on us then he will bring us into this land and give it to
bring us into this land and give it to
bring us into this land and give it to us a land which flows with milk and
us a land which flows with milk and
us a land which flows with milk and honey only do not rebel against the Lord
honey only do not rebel against the Lord
honey only do not rebel against the Lord nor fear the people of the land for they
nor fear the people of the land for they
nor fear the people of the land for they are our bread their protection has
are our bread their protection has
are our bread their protection has departed from them and the Lord is with
departed from them and the Lord is with
departed from them and the Lord is with us do not fear them
and all the congregation said to stone
and all the congregation said to stone them with stones now the glory of the
them with stones now the glory of the
them with stones now the glory of the Lord appeared in the tabernacle of
Lord appeared in the tabernacle of
Lord appeared in the tabernacle of meeting before all the children of
meeting before all the children of
meeting before all the children of Israel then the Lord said to Moses how
Israel then the Lord said to Moses how
Israel then the Lord said to Moses how long will these people reject me and how
long will these people reject me and how
long will these people reject me and how long will they not believe me with all
long will they not believe me with all
long will they not believe me with all the signs which I have performed among
the signs which I have performed among
the signs which I have performed among them I will strike them with the
them I will strike them with the
them I will strike them with the pestilence and disinherit them and I
pestilence and disinherit them and I
pestilence and disinherit them and I will make of you a nation greater and
will make of you a nation greater and
will make of you a nation greater and mightier than they are Moses said to the
mightier than they are Moses said to the
mightier than they are Moses said to the Lord then the Egyptians will hear it
Lord then the Egyptians will hear it
Lord then the Egyptians will hear it for by your might you brought these
for by your might you brought these
for by your might you brought these people up from among them and they will
people up from among them and they will
people up from among them and they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land
tell it to the inhabitants of this land
tell it to the inhabitants of this land they have heard that you Lord are among
they have heard that you Lord are among
they have heard that you Lord are among these people that you Lord are seen face
these people that you Lord are seen face
these people that you Lord are seen face to face and your cloud stands above them
to face and your cloud stands above them
to face and your cloud stands above them and you go before them in a pillar of
and you go before them in a pillar of
and you go before them in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by
cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by
cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night now if you kill these people as
night now if you kill these people as
night now if you kill these people as one man then the nations which have
one man then the nations which have
one man then the nations which have heard of your fame will speak saying
heard of your fame will speak saying
heard of your fame will speak saying because the Lord was not able to bring
because the Lord was not able to bring
because the Lord was not able to bring this people to the land which he swore
this people to the land which he swore
this people to the land which he swore to give them therefore he killed them in
to give them therefore he killed them in
to give them therefore he killed them in the wilderness and now I pray
let the power of my lord great just as
let the power of my lord great just as you have spoken saying the Lord is
you have spoken saying the Lord is
you have spoken saying the Lord is long-suffering and abundant in mercy
long-suffering and abundant in mercy
long-suffering and abundant in mercy forgiving iniquity and transgression but
forgiving iniquity and transgression but
forgiving iniquity and transgression but he by no means clears the guilty
he by no means clears the guilty
he by no means clears the guilty visiting the iniquity of the father's on
visiting the iniquity of the father's on
visiting the iniquity of the father's on the children to the third and fourth
the children to the third and fourth
the children to the third and fourth generation pardon the iniquity of these
generation pardon the iniquity of these
generation pardon the iniquity of these people I pray
people I pray
people I pray according to the greatness of yours just
according to the greatness of yours just
according to the greatness of yours just as you have forgiven this people from
as you have forgiven this people from
as you have forgiven this people from Egypt even until now I have according to
Egypt even until now I have according to
Egypt even until now I have according to your word but truly as I live all the
your word but truly as I live all the
your word but truly as I live all the earth shall be filled with the glory of
earth shall be filled with the glory of
earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord because all these men who have
the Lord because all these men who have
the Lord because all these men who have seen my glory and the signs which I did
seen my glory and the signs which I did
seen my glory and the signs which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness and have
in Egypt and in the wilderness and have
in Egypt and in the wilderness and have put me to the test now these 10 times
put me to the test now these 10 times
put me to the test now these 10 times and have not heeded my voice
and have not heeded my voice
and have not heeded my voice they certainly shall not see the land of
they certainly shall not see the land of
they certainly shall not see the land of which I swore to their fathers nor shall
which I swore to their fathers nor shall
which I swore to their fathers nor shall any of those who rejected me see it but
any of those who rejected me see it but
any of those who rejected me see it but my servant Caleb because he has a
my servant Caleb because he has a
my servant Caleb because he has a different spirit in him and has followed
different spirit in him and has followed
different spirit in him and has followed me fully
me fully
me fully I will bring into the land where he went
I will bring into the land where he went
I will bring into the land where he went and his descendants shall inherit it now
and his descendants shall inherit it now
and his descendants shall inherit it now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell
the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell
the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell in the valley tomorrow turn and move out
in the valley tomorrow turn and move out
in the valley tomorrow turn and move out into the wilderness by way of the Red
into the wilderness by way of the Red
into the wilderness by way of the Red Sea and the Lord spoke to Moses and
Sea and the Lord spoke to Moses and
Sea and the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron how long shall I bear with this
Aaron how long shall I bear with this
Aaron how long shall I bear with this evil congregation who complain against
evil congregation who complain against
evil congregation who complain against me I have heard the complaints which the
me I have heard the complaints which the
me I have heard the complaints which the children of Israel make against me
children of Israel make against me
children of Israel make against me say to them as I live says the Lord just
say to them as I live says the Lord just
say to them as I live says the Lord just as you have spoken in my hearing so I
as you have spoken in my hearing so I
as you have spoken in my hearing so I will do to you the caucuses of you who
will do to you the caucuses of you who
will do to you the caucuses of you who have complained against me shall fall in
have complained against me shall fall in
have complained against me shall fall in this wilderness all of you who were
this wilderness all of you who were
this wilderness all of you who were numbered according to your entire number
numbered according to your entire number
numbered according to your entire number from twenty years old and above except
from twenty years old and above except
from twenty years old and above except for Caleb the son of Jephunneh and
for Caleb the son of Jephunneh and
for Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of nun you shall by no
Joshua the son of nun you shall by no
Joshua the son of nun you shall by no means enter the land which I swore I
means enter the land which I swore I
means enter the land which I swore I would make you do it little ones whom
would make you do it little ones whom
would make you do it little ones whom you said would be victims I will bring
you said would be victims I will bring
you said would be victims I will bring in and they shall know the land which
in and they shall know the land which
in and they shall know the land which you have despised but as for you your
you have despised but as for you your
you have despised but as for you your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness
carcasses shall fall in this wilderness
carcasses shall fall in this wilderness and your son's shall be Shepherds in the
and your son's shall be Shepherds in the
and your son's shall be Shepherds in the wilderness forty years and bear the
wilderness forty years and bear the
wilderness forty years and bear the brunt of your infidelity until your
brunt of your infidelity until your
brunt of your infidelity until your carcasses are consumed in the wilderness
according to the number of the days in
according to the number of the days in which you spied out the land forty days
which you spied out the land forty days
which you spied out the land forty days for each day you shall bear your guilt
for each day you shall bear your guilt
for each day you shall bear your guilt one year namely forty years and you
one year namely forty years and you
one year namely forty years and you shall know my rejection I the Lord
shall know my rejection I the Lord
shall know my rejection I the Lord have spoken this I will surely do so to
have spoken this I will surely do so to
have spoken this I will surely do so to all this evil congregation who are
all this evil congregation who are
all this evil congregation who are gathered together against me
gathered together against me
gathered together against me in this wilderness they shall be
in this wilderness they shall be
in this wilderness they shall be consumed and there they shall done now
consumed and there they shall done now
consumed and there they shall done now the man whom Moses sent to spy out the
the man whom Moses sent to spy out the
the man whom Moses sent to spy out the land who returned and made all the
land who returned and made all the
land who returned and made all the congregation complain against him by
congregation complain against him by
congregation complain against him by bringing a bad report of the land those
bringing a bad report of the land those
bringing a bad report of the land those very men who brought the evil report
very men who brought the evil report
very men who brought the evil report about the land died by the plague before
about the land died by the plague before
about the land died by the plague before the Lord but Joshua the son of nun and
the Lord but Joshua the son of nun and
the Lord but Joshua the son of nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained
Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained
Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained alive of the men who went to spy out the
alive of the men who went to spy out the
alive of the men who went to spy out the land then Moses told these words to all
land then Moses told these words to all
land then Moses told these words to all the children of Israel and the people
the children of Israel and the people
the children of Israel and the people mourned greatly and they rose early in
mourned greatly and they rose early in
mourned greatly and they rose early in the morning and went up to the top of
the morning and went up to the top of
the morning and went up to the top of the mountain saying here we are and we
the mountain saying here we are and we
the mountain saying here we are and we will go up to the place which the Lord
will go up to the place which the Lord
will go up to the place which the Lord has promised for we have sinned and
has promised for we have sinned and
has promised for we have sinned and Moses said now why do you transgress the
Moses said now why do you transgress the
Moses said now why do you transgress the commandment the Lord for this will not
commandment the Lord for this will not
commandment the Lord for this will not succeed do not go up lest you be
succeed do not go up lest you be
succeed do not go up lest you be defeated by your enemies for the Lord is
defeated by your enemies for the Lord is
defeated by your enemies for the Lord is not among you for the Amalekites and
not among you for the Amalekites and
not among you for the Amalekites and Canaanites are there before you and you
Canaanites are there before you and you
Canaanites are there before you and you shall fall by the sword because you have
shall fall by the sword because you have
shall fall by the sword because you have turned away from the Lord the Lord will
turned away from the Lord the Lord will
turned away from the Lord the Lord will not be with you but they presume to go
not be with you but they presume to go
not be with you but they presume to go up to the mountain top nevertheless
up to the mountain top nevertheless
up to the mountain top nevertheless neither the Ark of the Covenant of the
neither the Ark of the Covenant of the
neither the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord nor Moses departed from the camp
Lord nor Moses departed from the camp
Lord nor Moses departed from the camp then the Amalekites and the Canaanites
then the Amalekites and the Canaanites
then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who dwelt in that mountain came down and
who dwelt in that mountain came down and
who dwelt in that mountain came down and attacked them and drove them back as far
attacked them and drove them back as far
attacked them and drove them back as far as hormann